while diplomatic efforts are continuing
around the world European leaders are
meeting in Brussels they're expected to
call for the establishment of
humanitarian corridors and pauses in the
bombardment of Gaza well let's speak to
step vasson she's live for us now from
Brussels step humanitarian corridors and
pauses but no mention of a
ceasefire no mention of a ceasefire at
all and also no condemnation over the
thousands of civilian death in Gaza
after Israeli bombardments so what's
happening here is that the EU leaders
are very much divided on how to respond
they were very quick to condemn hamas's
attacks on October 7 but now they've
been struggling to find even the right
words to put in their final communic
which they want to release later today
they have been uh fighting over
humanitarian pause or humanitarian paes
and now they have decided on the latter
because according to to Germany and
Germany plays a very important role here
because of its history and also the
Holocaust its position towards Israel is
unconditional support and they are very
much pushing for this humanitarian
pauses instead of pause because that
would be too much of a ceasefire uh
sounding like a ceasefire and that would
hamper Israel's right to defend itself
so it's going to be it's a very watered
down version our humanitarian fores
corridors which basically means that
humanitarian Aid should be able to reach
people in Gaza in between LS in the
bombardments it's something like that
and there's still uh debating it for the
rest of the day but this is of of course
very painful for the European Union
which is started as a peace process
they're not talking about peace they're
not talking about ceasefire uh they're
very much only talking about a very
small measure that they want to be
implemented Steph I understand that
Ukraine was also supposed to be on the
agenda today but it it seems to be very
much overshadowed by all the events in
the Middle
East yeah what the leaders here really
try to do now is to make sure that
Ukraine gets all the attention it
deserves they want to stress that the
Middle East is not overshadowing this
whole Summit uh president sansky will
speak later via Zoom but of course the
reality is it is overshadowing it's only
about the Middle East and the response
that Europe has and it's been criticized
heavily for this response and it was
interesting what charl Michelle uh the
president of the European Council had to
say when he entered uh the the summit he
said uh we are not uh having doubled
standards here he was asked about it he
was criticized over why Europe normally
responds very clearly if there's any
conflict in the world about human rights
abuses of violations of international
law and now they have a very different
response but he said that's not true we
are still holding Universal principles
of Human Rights and he also says that he
feels that some are trying to attack the
European Union on it and that they are
questioning their credibility so it's a
very uh difficult situation and that's
also what he described it for the
European Union here today step vasson
there for us in Brussels with all the
latest thank you step